What is it that you are doing?

I am analyzing the sale data. Sale data of what you may ask. It is data of real wstate market, I am analyzing properties of new york city, their features, and their sale price.


Where does this data come from?

The City publishes this data. The data, although not complete, has to go through my own cleaning phase first.


How do you clean this said data?

We would need to dive into the technical elements for me to truly express what was done for the purpose of cleaning the data. However, if you are curious, it was all standard procesure that we followed.
-- we followed a very standard protocol for cleaning the data, which included removing rows, if they fit certain criteria, same with rows. And also, we did not artificially fill the data, or really we did not do it yet, but if we were to, we would definitely not be very innovative and use established protocols to do it.


How are we approaching the analysis of the data?

The data is being targeted in a very systematic manner. The data is huge, and is composed of a diverse set of data points. So diverse that trying to analyze it all together would not be super helpful. What this research does, is it first decomposes the data into multiple types, first by borough, then by the type of property it is. And by "the type of property" we obviously mean the Building's class categoy.
We first analyze the Buildings with Rental apartments (commercial, residentail, or both).

The specific building class are: (07 Rentals - Walkup Apartments, 08 Rentals - Elevator Apartments, 14 Rentals - 4-10 Unit)

The most important features:
- Gross Square Feet (total size of the building)
- Total Residential Units
- Total Commercial Units


(some questions, how likely are you to get a descent sized apartment, how likely are you to )



(As interesting as the information is byitself, it is not super important for most of us, not many people are truly intersted in buying an entire rental building with multiple units.)
for the general people
What is more valuable is the how is coops and condos being priced. What makes coop and condo more pricey.


Coops:

(but we have a problem, the data on coops are not as varied as

We are 



first slide:
Intro to the topic, then talk about the structure of the presentation.

Slide 2:
Structure of the research (exploratory)
Goal

Slide 3:
Where we got the data, a short description on the source of the data, why do they collect, how do they have the informaiton on it.
Features/columns that are involved in the data.

Slide 4:
Approach (divide and conquer)


Slide 5:
How exactly do we divide, the first and the obvious thing that comes to mind is the Borough (the data set is divided to borough wise dataset)
then we know neighborhood is also different (the research takes that into account as well), it does not per say create seperate data sets for each neighborhood (because doing so manually will be unfeasable) but we just analyze specific neighborhood based on their perceived importance)


Slide 6:
Property types >> explaination for Rental apartment buildings, coops, condos, office buildings, ...


Slide 7: 
Up next we will be diving into some of the visualizations and what they mean, to get a sense of how the research is dealing with the data and how insights are being derived.


(( these are some of the interesting things that have been derived so far ))
